README.md, before:

# Social Portal

A decentralized, privacy-focused social media aggregator and identity manager.

## Overview

The Social Portal is a **Single-Page Application (SPA)** that aggregates content from multiple social networks (Mastodon, Bluesky, Nostr, etc.) via their public APIs directly from your browser.

- **Architecture**: Static Client-Side App (React + Vite)
- **Identity**: Polycentric (Local-first, stored in IndexedDB)
- **Data**: Peer-to-Peer / Direct API fetch (no central backend)

## Features

- **Unified Feed**: Mix content from ActivityPub, AT Protocol, Nostr, and RSS.
- **Local Identity**: Your keys and data stay on your device.
- **Privacy**: No tracking, no algorithm.
- **Customizable**: Pin networks, manage topics, add custom RSS feeds.

## Self-Hosting

Since the app is a static SPA, you can host it anywhere.

1. **Build**:

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

2. **Deploy**:
    Serve the `dist/` directory using any web server (Nginx, Caddy, Apache) or static host (Vercel, Netlify, GitHub Pages).

### CORS Proxy Note

To bypass browser CORS restrictions for some legacy networks (like RSS feeds), the app currently falls back to `allorigins.win` or internal dev proxies. For a robust self-hosted production setup, it is recommended to run a small CORS proxy alongside the static app.

Networks that support direct (peer-to-peer) connections without a proxy:

- Bluesky
- Nostr (via Relays)
- Misskey (most instances)
- Mastodon (most instances)

## Portable Deployment (Cross-Platform)

For a truly portable "deploy anywhere" experience (e.g., on Android via Termux, or a USB stick), we provide a build command.

1. **Build**:

    ```bash
    npm run build:portable
    ```

    This creates `social-portal-portable.zip` containing the `dist/` folder and `server.py`.

2. **Deploy**:
    Copy `social-portal-portable.zip` to your device, extract it, and run:

    ```bash
    python3 scripts/server.py
    ```

3. **Access**: Open `http://localhost:8080` (or the printed Network URL).

This script serves the app and handles the CORS proxying automatically, with no external dependencies (standard Python library only).

## Remote Access & Security

To access your self-hosted instance securely from other devices (e.g., hosting on a Raspberry Pi or Android phone and accessing from an iPhone), we strongly recommend using a mesh VPN like **Tailscale**.

- **Zero Config**: Install Tailscale on your host and client devices.
- **No Open Ports**: You do not need to open ports on your router or expose your IP to the public internet.
- **Security**: Access is encrypted and authenticated. Only your devices can see the Social Portal.
- **MagicDNS**: You can access your instance via a stable hostname (e.g., `http://raspberry-pi:8080`) regardless of network changes.

## Development

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

## 🚀 One-Line Deployment

For laymen and quick setup on any device, use these one-liners:

### 📱 Android (Termux) / 💻 macOS / 🐧 Linux

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/icematrix256/social-portal/main/deploy/install.sh | bash
```

### 🪟 Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
iex (iwr https://raw.githubusercontent.com/icematrix256/social-portal/main/deploy/install.ps1 -UseBasicParsing)
```

> [!NOTE]
> These scripts will automatically detect your OS, install necessary dependencies (Python, Node, Git), clone the repository, and set up a desktop shortcut or terminal alias.

Commit message:

Docs: Update APK download instructions and minor workflow cleanup

README.md, after:

# Social Portal

A decentralized, privacy-focused social media aggregator and identity manager.

## Overview

The Social Portal is a **Single-Page Application (SPA)** that aggregates content from multiple social networks (Mastodon, Bluesky, Nostr, etc.) via their public APIs directly from your browser.

- **Architecture**: Static Client-Side App (React + Vite)
- **Identity**: Polycentric (Local-first, stored in IndexedDB)
- **Data**: Peer-to-Peer / Direct API fetch (no central backend)

## Features

- **Unified Feed**: Mix content from ActivityPub, AT Protocol, Nostr, and RSS.
- **Local Identity**: Your keys and data stay on your device.
- **Privacy**: No tracking, no algorithm.
- **Customizable**: Pin networks, manage topics, add custom RSS feeds.

## Self-Hosting

Since the app is a static SPA, you can host it anywhere.

1. **Build**:

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

2. **Deploy**:
    Serve the `dist/` directory using any web server (Nginx, Caddy, Apache) or static host (Vercel, Netlify, GitHub Pages).

### CORS Proxy Note

To bypass browser CORS restrictions for some legacy networks (like RSS feeds), the app currently falls back to `allorigins.win` or internal dev proxies. For a robust self-hosted production setup, it is recommended to run a small CORS proxy alongside the static app.

Networks that support direct (peer-to-peer) connections without a proxy:

- Bluesky
- Nostr (via Relays)
- Misskey (most instances)
- Mastodon (most instances)

## Portable Deployment (Cross-Platform)

For a truly portable "deploy anywhere" experience (e.g., on Android via Termux, or a USB stick), we provide a build command.

1. **Build**:

    ```bash
    npm run build:portable
    ```

    This creates `social-portal-portable.zip` containing the `dist/` folder and `server.py`.

2. **Deploy**:
    Copy `social-portal-portable.zip` to your device, extract it, and run:

    ```bash
    python3 scripts/server.py
    ```

3. **Access**: Open `http://localhost:8080` (or the printed Network URL).

This script serves the app and handles the CORS proxying automatically, with no external dependencies (standard Python library only).

## Remote Access & Security

To access your self-hosted instance securely from other devices (e.g., hosting on a Raspberry Pi or Android phone and accessing from an iPhone), we strongly recommend using a mesh VPN like **Tailscale**.

- **Zero Config**: Install Tailscale on your host and client devices.
- **No Open Ports**: You do not need to open ports on your router or expose your IP to the public internet.
- **Security**: Access is encrypted and authenticated. Only your devices can see the Social Portal.
- **MagicDNS**: You can access your instance via a stable hostname (e.g., `http://raspberry-pi:8080`) regardless of network changes.

## Development

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

## 🚀 One-Line Deployment

### 📱 Native Android APK

If you prefer a standalone app experience without using Termux, you can download the latest pre-built APK:

1. Go to the [Social Portal Releases Page](https://github.com/IceMatrix256/social-portal/releases).
2. Download the `app-debug.apk` file from the latest release.
3. Install the `.apk` file on your Android device.

---

### 💻 Android (Termux) /  Mac / 🐧 Linux (One-Liner)

This is for the "Power User" experience with a local proxy backend.

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/icematrix256/social-portal/main/deploy/install.sh | bash
```

### 🪟 Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
iex (iwr https://raw.githubusercontent.com/icematrix256/social-portal/main/deploy/install.ps1 -UseBasicParsing)
```

> [!NOTE]
> These scripts will automatically detect your OS, install necessary dependencies (Python, Node, Git), clone the repository, and set up a desktop shortcut or terminal alias.
